I was born in the northern of Germany.
I didn't have a very good relationship to my father
because he drank a lot, and very often he was mean to me.
On the other hand, my mother, really, she was kind, lovely.
And I can tell you, I loved my mother from the bottom of my heart.
One day, the doctors diagnosed it that she has cancer
and only a few days later, she died and she was gone.
And this was for me, horrible, I tell you.
I feel completely empty, no hope, angry.
I couldn't understand, really, I couldn't get it.
How a God can be so painful to others
and take the best of what I had in my life, just take it away.
I hate everything around me.
I will never trust anyone.
And especially, I lost also the trust completely in God.
And therefore, I decide to go to the German Air Force.
It starts with a basic training.
So the idea is we have to follow orders,
doesn't matter what happens.
So a special training was also hand-to-hand combat.
And this gives you a lot of confidence.
You're saying nobody can hurt you once again.
You feel very strong.
I remember some situation we were outside in the woods.
And this was part of the survival training.
I felt instructable and very proud of myself.
So a little later, on my military career,
I was working with a missile launch crew.
One day, I realized that just with one launch of this missile
I could be responsible for to kill thousands of people.
When all this comes to my mind, I start to think,
is it possible there is a God existing?
And when so, how would he think about my work what I'm doing here?
There was in my family, my aunt.
And once she told me,
Dear, if someday you will like to know something
more about God about the Bible,
you have to contact your old witnesses.
They know exactly what is the prophecy from the Bible
and this can give you hope.
And from there on, I studied the Bible
and also I came to the meetings from them.
So in one meeting, my wife Elvia sitting beside me,
I was sure I have to make a big change.
To be together with these people who love Jehovah God
and I am still working for the German Air Force.
I decided, officially,
to refuse the military service because my conjured buzz on me.
I felt very confident that this was the right decision to do.
So at that court day,
and this was surprising for me,
they told me that my request will be rejected.
If I refuse to go on with my military service,
I will be sent to prison.
I really didn't know what to do.
And then I saw that Jehovah took over.
My side commander told me,
do you know what?
I have a solution for you.
You can appeal the court decision.
He offered me an office job.
So the only thing I have to do was a paperwork
and a shift from eight hours.
I was finished after two hours.
I was done with this.
Six months, five days a week,
six hours a day.
I was just starting and studying.
I felt not only that I drove closer to Jehovah.
I also was convinced now that in the past time,
I was just relying on myself.
I trust only me.
But now I got the opportunity to lay everything
what I needed to Jehovah.
Every and I, we got really deeply discussions.
I'm in prison and she alone.
I was wondering how she could take care on herself.
If I have to go to prison,
we still, we stick to Jehovah and to his ways.
So if the court arrived,
I asked Jehovah,
please Jehovah, give me the strength
and also the wisdom and the right words
to bring glory fire on his name.
After the hearing,
the providing judge told me
when the decision is made,
it will be final.
So back in my unit,
the next days, they were horrible.
One day, my side commander came in into my office
and he got a very, very serious face.
Wow.
I knew what was coming up.
I was seeing me already behind the bars.
Then surprising,
he told me,
hey, this is a set use for me.
The decision is made.
You are free to go.
And I will lose my best officer what I have.
In this moment,
well, I remember the tears comes out.
I couldn't hide it back.
And I was so thankful to Jehovah.
And I felt really,
this was the best decision I made
to stick to Jehovah and not to man.
So every and I,
we dedicated our life completely to Jehovah.
And now, because of the privilege to serve him,
almost 50 years together.
The scripture at Isaiah 40,
verses 10 and 11,
comes really to my mind.
Jehovah will come with power,
like a shepherd he will care for his flock,
and certainly, he did.
It doesn't matter what Satan ever brings to you.
This relationship with Jehovah leads always to success.